Add deploy-tidb-on-google-cloud-platform-part-2 (#629)
pingcap/blog: how-to-deploy-tidb-on-google-cloud-platform-part-2.md

---
title: How to Deploy TiDB on Google Cloud Platform—Part 2
author: ['Mike Barlow']
date: 2021-08-04
summary: This post shows how to install, configure, and run TiDB on a Google Cloud Platform instance.
tags: ['Tutorial', 'Cloud']
categories: ['Product']
image: /images/blog/deploy-tidb-on-google-cloud-platform-1.jpg
---

**Author:** [Mike Barlow](https://github.com/BarDev) (Solution Architect at PingCAP)

**Editors:** [Tina Yang](https://github.com/mangocake88), Tom Dewan, [Caitin Chen](https://github.com/CaitinChen)

![How to deploy TiDB on Google Cloud Platform](media/deploy-tidb-on-google-cloud-platform-1.jpg)

## Overview

Welcome to the second of a two-part blog series on getting a simple TiDB cluster up and running on Google Cloud Platform. The goal is to let you quickly set up TiDB and become familiar with its benefits. In [Part 1](https://pingcap.com/blog/how-to-deploy-tidb-on-google-cloud-platform-part-1), we created a GCP instance. Here in Part 2, we will install, configure, and run TiDB on that instance.

> By the end of this article, your architecture may look similar to the following:.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By the end of this article, your architecture may look similar to the following:
```

![A TiDB/GCP reference architecture](media/tidb-gcp-reference-architecture.jpg)
<div class="caption-center"> A TiDB/GCP reference architecture </div>

In [Part 1](https://pingcap.com/blog/how-to-deploy-tidb-on-google-cloud-platform-part-1), we focused on the Prerequisite Operations of setting up and configuring GCP in order to run TiDB. (See the image below.) Now, we will actually set up and run TiDB.

![Run TiDB on a Google Cloud Platform instance](media/run-tidb-on-google-cloud-platform-instance.jpg)
<div class="caption-center"> Run TiDB on a Google Cloud Platform instance </div>

## Before you begin

> In [Part 1](https://hackmd.io/vmqIH4SMRIOUyvqOhExqsw) we had set up the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In [Part 1](https://pingcap.com/blog/how-to-deploy-tidb-on-google-cloud-platform-part-1) we had set up the following:
```
